NMS-13446: provisiond docs updates (#3577)
OpenNMS/opennms: docs/modules/operation/pages/provisioning/handlers/vmware.adoc

. Save the role assignment and make sure to propagate to child objects, if prompted.

== Provide credentials to {page-component-title}

Now that vCenter has been configured to allow access to read objects, it is time to setup {page-component-title} to be able to connect to vCenter.
In the `$OPENNMS_HOME/etc/vmware-config.xml` file, add a line with the hostname, user, and password to connect to your vCenter server.
If you have multiple vCenter servers, you can specify multiple `<vmware-server />` objects in this file.

[source, xml]
----
<?xml version="1.0"?>
<vmware-config>
    <vmware-server hostname="vcenter.mydomain.org" username="OpenNMS" password="secret"/>
</vmware-config>
----

== Configure VMware requisition

The final step is to setup a requisition definition in `$OPENNMS_HOME/etc/provisiond-configuration.xml`.
Using the `vmware://` prefix, create a `<requisition-def>` object for the vCenter server.

[source, xml]
----
<requisition-def import-name="vCenter" <1>
    import-url-resource="vmware://vcenter.mydomain.org"> <2>
    <cron-schedule>0 42 23 * * ? *</cron-schedule> <3>
</requisition-def>
----

<1> The name of the requisition to appear within {page-component-title}.

> A suggestion is to use the name of the vCenter server, but it can be whatever label you want to use.

Author: ```suggestion
```

[[vmware-handler]]
= VMWare Handler

> The VMware adapter can pull hosts and/or virtual machines from a vCenter server into {page-component-title}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The VMware adapter pulls hosts and/or virtual machines from a vCenter server into {page-component-title}.
```

With this adapter, nodes can automatically be added, updated, or removed from your {page-component-title} based on the status of the VMware entity.
The adapter also lets {page-component-title} collect additional performance metrics directly from the VMware server based on stats stored by the hypervisor.

== Preparing VMware credentials

To allow communication between OpenNMS and VMware, you must create a user and a role for authentication and permissions.

> You can either create a new local user within your vCenter server or use an account that has been defined in an external authentication system that is setup to access your vCenter instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can either create a new local user within your vCenter server or use an account that has been defined in an external authentication system that is set up to access your vCenter instance.
```

To import only a subset of nodes, select a specific data center, cluster, or host.
. Select the Add Permission option from the right-click menu.
. Enter the name of the user account to use to connect to vCenter during the import process.
. Select the "OpenNMS-Access" role (or whatever you called it in the previous step).
. Save the role assignment and make sure to propagate to child objects, if prompted.

== Provide credentials to {page-component-title}

Now that vCenter has been configured to allow access to read objects, it is time to set up {page-component-title} to be able to connect to vCenter.
In the `$\{OPENNMS_HOME}/etc/vmware-config.xml` file, add a line with the hostname, user, and password to connect to your vCenter server.
If you have multiple vCenter servers, you can specify multiple `<vmware-server />` objects in this file.

[source, xml]
----
<?xml version="1.0"?>
<vmware-config>
    <vmware-server hostname="vcenter.mydomain.org" username="OpenNMS" password="secret"/>
</vmware-config>
----

== Configure VMware requisition

The final step is to set up a requisition definition in `$\{OPENNMS_HOME}/etc/provisiond-configuration.xml`.

> Using the `vmware://` prefix, create a `<requisition-def>` object for the vCenter server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the `vmware://` prefix to create a `<requisition-def>` object for the vCenter server.
```

[source, xml]
----
<requisition-def import-name="vCenter" <1>
    import-url-resource="vmware://vcenter.mydomain.org"> <2>
    <cron-schedule>0 42 23 * * ? *</cron-schedule> <3>
</requisition-def>
----

<1> The name of the requisition to appear within {page-component-title}.
<2> The hostname defined in the `provisiond-configuration.xml` must match the same case as the hostname entered in the `vmware-config.xml`.
<3> The schedule of how frequently the import should rerun.
In this example, the import runs every day at 23:42.

By default, all running hosts and virtual machines will be detected and added to the requisition.
Change this behavior by adding additional parameters to the `import-url-resource` parameter in the requisition definition.

Do not forget to restart services after making changes to the `provisiond-configuration.xml` file.

== Optional import parameters

[options="header"]
[cols="1,3,1"]
|===
| Parameter
| Description
| Default

| importIPv4Only

> | Imports only IPv4 Interfaces.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Imports only IPv4 interfaces.
```

| false

| importIPv6Only

> | Imports only IPv6 Interfaces.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Imports only IPv6 interfaces.
```

| hostSystemServices
| Monitor services to assign to imported host systems.
Multiple values should be comma separated.
| VMware-ManagedEntity, VMware-HostSystem, VMwareCim-HostSystem

| timeout
| VMware connection timeout, in milliseconds.
| 3000

| cimTimeout
| Timeout, in milliseconds, used to test interface addresses for a reachable CIM service.
Increase this value only if you have problems discovering CIM services on host systems.
| 3000
|===

IMPORTANT: `importVMOnly` and `importHostOnly` cannot both be true simultaneously. +
`importIPv4Only` and `importIPv6Only` cannot both be true simultaneously.

NOTE: If you do not import powered-off or standby entities, they will be removed and re-added to {page-component-title} based on their power state.
This can cause their database ID to change over time.
Enabling the https://opennms.discourse.group/t/storing-data-with-foreign-sources/2057[storeByForeignSource] setting can help make sure collected metrics are kept properly.

== Provision a subset of VMware entities

If you want to provision an arbitrary selection of VMware entities, you can specify a key-value pair to match objects that have a specific attribute in vCenter.

> The key to lookup is a user-defined attribute for entities being imported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The key to look up is a user-defined attribute for entities being imported.
```
